---
description: Learn about how is stETHvv is structured.
---

# Description

## Assumptions

The stETHvv assumes that ETH price is highly volatile and will continue to be volatile. This product creates a derivative structure to let users benefit from ETHs volatility. The **direction of the market movements doesn't matter** as the strategy can benefit both when the asset **price goes up** and **when it goes down**.

The strategy also assumes that Lido is a reputable source of a base yield on ETH. Find more about Lido [here](https://docs.lido.fi/).

## The structure

stETHvv has two main components: **a yield source** and **a derivative structure**.

### The yield source

Currently, the vault can only receive deposits in stETH (ETH deposits are coming soon). stETH is an interest-bearing token that represents Ethereum 2 staking rewards within Lidos liquid staking implementation.&#x20;

stETH tokens generate returns daily. Those returns compound every week.&#x20;

### The derivative structure

The vault applies a principal protected strategy using derivatives. Being a principal-protected strategy, it will never apply market risk to the principal. This means that the derivative strategy only uses the yield accrued within the vault to set up the structure - **never the principal.**&#x20;

&#x20;The strategy accumulated the daily yield from Lido stETH over a week and every Friday it separates 50% of the accrued yield to buy the derivative structure.&#x20;

The derivative structure is made of buying calls and puts, ranging from 10% to 20% OTM with weekly maturities. This structure is also known as a strangle.

Let's take an example.

The current spot price of ETH is 2000, so the strike for the put would be at least 1800 and 2200 for the call.&#x20;

But let's say that the strikes available in the venues are:

PUT:&#x20;

* option 1: 1850 -> 7.5% OTM
* option 2: 1700 -> 15% OTM

CALL:

* option 1: 2150 -> 7.5% OTM&#x20;
* option 2: 2300 -> 15% OTM

In this case, we always respect the 10% to 20% OTM, and we would choose option 2 in both scenarios.

### The scenarios

📈 If the ETH price moves up considerably, the call option may enter _in-the-money_ and return more than the yield used to purchase it.&#x20;

📉 If the ETH price crashes, the put option may enter _in-the-money_, returning more than the yield used to purchase it.&#x20;

📊 If there were not enough volatility, the vault would only lose 50% of the yield generated by Lido that week.&#x20;

This way we can preserve the principal deposited and let it grow with Lido, risking only part of the yield to put together the strangle strategy.&#x20;

### The users

This strategy is perfect for those that hold ETH, believe ETH is gonna continue to be a volatile asset, and want to accumulate more ETH over time with controlled risks.

